# Chapter 5 Examples

Examples from Chapter 5 (Collections) of Programming C# 8.0 (O'Reilly).

## Arrays

* [Example 1. Creating arrays](Collections/Arrays/Program.cs#L10-L11)
* [Example 2. Accessing array elements](Collections/Arrays/Program.cs#L13-L17)
* [Example 3. Convoluted array access](Collections/Arrays/Program.cs#L23-L29)
* [Example 4. How not to modify an array with immutable elements](Collections/Arrays/Program.cs#L36-L39)
* [Example 5. Modifying an array with immutable elements](Collections/Arrays/Program.cs#L19-L20)
* [Example 6. Laborious array initialization](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L7-L12)
* [Example 7. Array initializer syntax](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L17-L18)
* [Example 8. Shorter array initializer syntax](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L23-L24)
* [Example 9. Array initializer syntax with element type inference](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L29-L30)
* [Example 10. Array as argument](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L35)
* [Example 11. Searching with IndexOf](Collections/Arrays/Searching.cs#L10-L18)
* [Example 12. Searching with FindIndex](Collections/Arrays/Searching.cs#L21-L24)
* [Example 13. Using a lambda with FindIndex](Collections/Arrays/Searching.cs#L28-L29)
* [Example 14. Finding multiple items with FindAll](Collections/Arrays/Searching.cs#L32-L33)
* [Example 15. Search performance and BinarySearch](Collections/Arrays/Searching.cs#L37-L82)
* [Example 16. Creating a jagged array](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L40-L47)
* [Example 17. Rectangular arrays](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L52-L58)
* [Example 18. A 2×3×5 cuboid “rectangular” array](Collections/Arrays/ArrayInitialization.cs#L60-L72)

## List&lt;T&gt;

* [Example 19. Using a List&lt;T&gt;](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 20. List initializer](Collections/Arrays/)

## List and Sequence Interfaces

* [Example 21. IEnumerable&lt;T&gt; and IEnumerable](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 22. IEnumerator&lt;T&gt; and IEnumerator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 23. IAsyncEnumerable&lt;T&gt; and IAsyncEnumerator&lt;T&gt;](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 24. ICollection&lt;T&gt;](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 25. IList&lt;T&gt;](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 26. Trying (and failing) to enlarge an array](Collections/Arrays/)

## Implementing Lists and Sequences

* [Example 27. A simple iterator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 28. A very simple iterator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 29. An infinite iterator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 30. Implementing IEnumerable&lt;T&gt; by hand](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 31. Iterator argument validation](Collections/Arrays/)

## Addressing Elements with Index and Range Syntax

* [Example 32. Accessing the last element of an array with an end-relative index](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 33. Getting a subrange of an array with the range operator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 34. Some start-relative and end-relative Index values](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 35. End-relative indexing, and pre-Index equivalents](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 36. Various ranges](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 37. Getting a substring with a range](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 38. Getting a subrange of an ArraySegment&lt;T&gt; with the range operator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 39. Getting a subrange of a Span&lt;T&gt; with the range operator](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 40. Minimally enabling Index](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 41. Minimally enabling Range](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 42. How range indexing expands](Collections/Arrays/)

## Dictionaries

* [Example 43. Using a dictionary as part of a cache](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 44. Dictionary lookup with indexer](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 45. Collection initializer syntax with a dictionary](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 46. Object initializer syntax with a dictionary](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 47. A case-insensitive dictionary](Collections/Arrays/)

## Sets

* [Example 48. Using a set to determine what's new](Collections/Arrays/)

## Immutable Collections

* [Example 49. Creating immutable dictionaries](Collections/Arrays/)
* [Example 50. Creating an immutable dictionary with a builder](Collections/Arrays/)
